# Immigrants in America

### Author's Statement

My research project allowed me the opportunity to explore my growing passion for data science as an intended Informatics major by creating a Shiny application with R Studio that will allow people to see where immigrants from different regions in the world are residing in the United States. Utilizing my coding experience in INFO 201, I was able to create a visualization to answer my research questions on whether immigrants have specific states they overall immigrate to and whether where immigrants are from has an impact on where they immigrate to. My visualization lacks the states Alaska and Hawaii because plotting states in R Studio takes the longitude and latitude coordinates, and those states are a distance away from the mainland. Through my project, I got the chance to explore where immigrants from various regions have resided in the U.S. in 2018 with Pew Research Center’s Facts on U.S. immigrants for the year 2018, specifically with the data on the top states of residence of U.S. immigrants. The source of the data is the Pew Research Center tabulations of 2018, American Community Survey, 1% Integrated Public Use Microdata Series, which provides census data internationally.

The state of residence for U.S. immigrants is of interest to me because reading about Little Senegal in Senegal Abroad and volunteering in Chinatown at the Asian Counseling and Referral Service food bank, which gives out culturally familiar foods, has made me curious about how immigrants congregate in specific areas, ergo preserving their culture. Due to the fact that immigrants have a tendency “to settle in a few areas rather than to disperse uniformly across the country,” resulting in “the formation of ethnic concentrations or ethnic enclaves,” their culture is preserved in the U.S. (Zavodny 1014; Chiswick and Miller 185). Because of this, there is a cultural identity created in a community where new immigrants have the chance to establish themselves in America and not lose their connections to home while aiming to be a part of the American community as a culturally diverse individual. Working tirelessly to succeed in America’s system that does not accept them, they are embedded in a society that forces them to change who they are to be a part of the predominantly white American melting pot because of the singular view of what an American is while being surrounded by a community that understands who they are. American society lacks the knowledge of the culturally diverse, creating an environment where immigrants are detached from a society that is intolerant and uneducated of their backgrounds.

Immigrants may also reside in specific states because of affordability. The cost to immigrate farther from major international airports results in “immigrants from the same source country [...] to head to similar (easily accessible) destination[s]” (Novotny and Hasman). Due to the resources at one’s disposal, people are bound as they chase the trails of immigrants before them whose presence creates a reminder of what they could achieve in America, advertised as the home of the free.




### Bibliography
Budiman, Abby, et al. Region and Top States of Residence of U.S. Immigrants. Washington, D.C.: Pew Research Center, 2020. Accessed 8 Mar. 2022. <https://www.pewresearch.org/hispanic/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2020/08/Pew-Research-Center_Regions-States-Current-Data_Statistical-Portrait-of-the-Foreign-Born-2018.xlsx>

Chiswick, Barry R., and Paul W. Miller. “Where Immigrants Settle in the United States.” Journal of Comparative Policy Analysis, vol. 6, no. 2, Taylor & Francis Ltd, 2004, pp. 185–197, https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/1387698042000273479. Accessed 11 Mar. 2022.

Novotny, Josef, and Jiri Hasman. “The Emergence of Regional Immigrant Concentrations in USA and Australia: a Spatial Relatedness Approach.” PloS One, vol. 10, no. 5, Public Library of Science, 2015, https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0126793. Accessed 10 Mar. 2022.

Zavodny, Madeline. “Determinants of Recent Immigrants’ Locational Choices.” The International Migration Review, vol. 33, no. 4, 1999, pp. 1014–1030. JSTOR, https://www.jstor.org/stable/2547361. Accessed 8 Mar. 2022.
